docs/developer/hardware/pebble-power-on.md, before:

---
title: Hardware Setup
---

# Pebble Hardware Setup

## Unboxing

You Pebble box contains the following:

- The actual Pebble board
- The GPS Antenna
- A male, 2-poles 1.25mm pitch power connector
- A label with the IMEI number for your board

![](/img/developer/pebble-unbox.jpg)

## Board Layout

Relevant slots, connectors and switches on Pebble include the following:

- **Power connector**: this is a 2-poles, 1.25mm pitch, female connector. Please notice that Pebble power circuit does not provide polarity-inversion protection, therfore please check the polarity carefully when connecting the battery or any power supply

- **SIM card slot**: this is a micro-SIM slot where you can insert any IoT SIM card.

- **Micro-USB port**: this port is used to charge the battery connected to the power supply input. The Micro-USB port can also be used to program the Pebble.

- **Reset button**: This is a small switch button that allows to reset the board software (short press) or to put the board in _recovery mode_ (see [TODO: Flashing the firmware]).

- **Data port**: the data port is used to program and debug the board using the SEGGER JLink programmer/debugger

- **Cellular and GPS antenna**: these two caoxial inputs allow the connection of a GPS and/or a cellular external antennas

<div id="board-layout-image"></div>

![](/img/developer/pebble-layout.jpg)

## Inserting a SIM card

Insert a IoT Micro-SIM into the Pebble SIM card slot until it's locked inside. Pebble supports both LTE-M and NB-IoT cellular standards: **check which one is supported in your country** and that the SIM card you use is compliant with te same standard.

Some supported SIM cards are:

- [Hologram Global IoT & M2M SIM Card](https://www.hologram.io/products/iot-sim-card)
- [Vodafone Smart Sim (aka V-SIM)](https://eshop.v.vodafone.com/uk/v-sim)

Pebble comes preinstalled with the firmware in **NB-IoT** configuration: if you need support for LTE-M instead, then you will be required to [configure and flash the Pebble firmware](pebble-firmware-configure) to enable LTE-M.

## Connecting the LTE Antenna

Locate the LTE Antenna connector on the board and carefully conenct the antenna you find in the Pebble package. The antenna also provides an adesive strip to conveniently fix it to any surface.

## Connecting a battery

Pebble requires a DC power supply in the range of 3V - 5V, that must be provided to the power connector using a 2-poles 1.25mm pitch male connector. You can both find a battery that fits the space in the Pebble case, or reassemble the case to provide more space to fit your battery. If your battery does not provide the correct connector for Pebble Tracher, you can replace it with the extra power connector included in the package.

Once the battery is connected you can press the reset button: you will see the RGB led light up and blinking every 5s.

![](/img/developer/pebble-connected.jpg)

## Charging the battery

You can connect Pebble to a USB charger or to your PC using the micro-usb connector to recharge your battery. Once the battery is fully charged you will see the RGB led to light up in green.

Commit message:

Added Pebble Battery allowed sizes and buy links

docs/developer/hardware/pebble-power-on.md, after:

---
title: Hardware Setup
---

# Pebble Hardware Setup

## Unboxing

You Pebble box contains the following:

- The actual Pebble board
- The GPS Antenna
- A male, 2-poles 1.25mm pitch power connector
- A label with the IMEI number for your board

![](/img/developer/pebble-unbox.jpg)

## Board Layout

Relevant slots, connectors and switches on Pebble include the following:

- **Power connector**: this is a 2-poles, 1.25mm pitch, female connector. Please notice that Pebble power circuit does not provide polarity-inversion protection, therfore please check the polarity carefully when connecting the battery or any power supply

- **SIM card slot**: this is a micro-SIM slot where you can insert any IoT SIM card.

- **Micro-USB port**: this port is used to charge the battery connected to the power supply input. The Micro-USB port can also be used to program the Pebble.

- **Reset button**: This is a small switch button that allows to reset the board software (short press) or to put the board in _recovery mode_ (see [TODO: Flashing the firmware]).

- **Data port**: the data port is used to program and debug the board using the SEGGER JLink programmer/debugger

- **Cellular and GPS antenna**: these two caoxial inputs allow the connection of a GPS and/or a cellular external antennas

<div id="board-layout-image"></div>

![](/img/developer/pebble-layout.jpg)

## Inserting a SIM card

Insert a IoT Micro-SIM into the Pebble SIM card slot until it's locked inside. Pebble supports both LTE-M and NB-IoT cellular standards: **check which one is supported in your country** and that the SIM card you use is compliant with te same standard.

Some supported SIM cards are:

- [Hologram Global IoT & M2M SIM Card](https://www.hologram.io/products/iot-sim-card)
- [Vodafone Smart Sim (aka V-SIM)](https://eshop.v.vodafone.com/uk/v-sim)

Pebble comes preinstalled with the firmware in **NB-IoT** configuration: if you need support for LTE-M instead, then you will be required to [configure and flash the Pebble firmware](pebble-firmware-configure) to enable LTE-M.

## Connecting the LTE Antenna

Locate the LTE Antenna connector on the board and carefully conenct the antenna you find in the Pebble package. The antenna also provides an adesive strip to conveniently fix it to any surface.

## Connecting a battery

Pebble requires a DC power supply in the range of 3V - 5V, that must be provided to the frmale power socket using a 2-poles 1.25mm pitch male plug. You can both find a battery that fits the space in the default Pebble case, or reassemble the case to provide more space to fit your battery. If your battery connector is not compliant with the Pebble power socket, you can replace it with the extra power connector included in the package.

Depending on the shape of your battery, the maximum area sizes available for it to be entirely enclosed into the default case are:

- 44.0mm x 35.0mm x 7.0mm
- 25.7mm x 53.0mm x 7.0mm
- 24.0mm x 25.7mm x 7.4mm
- 21.0mm x 35.0mm x 7.4mm

Possible batteries that would fit are:

- SparkFun Electronics 850mAh ([DigiKey USA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/sparkfun-electronics/PRT-13854/6605201))
- Jauch Quartz LP503040JH 630mAh ([DigiKey USA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/jauch-quartz/LP503040JH-PCM-WIRES-50MM/9560983))
- Jauch Quartz LP443441JU 650mAh ([DigiKey USA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/jauch-quartz/LP443441JU-PCM-WIRES-50MM/9560984))
- Jauch Quartz LP102530JU 700mAh ([DigiKey USA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/jauch-quartz/LP102530JU-PCM-WIRES-50MM/9560985))
- BAK LP-443440-1S-3 600mAh ([Farnell UK](https://uk.farnell.com/bak/lp-443440-1s-3/battery-lithium-pol-3-7v-0-6ah/dp/2077883?ost=lp-443440-1s-3))

Once the battery is connected you can press the reset button: you will see the RGB led light up and blinking every 5s.

![](/img/developer/pebble-connected.jpg)

## Charging the battery

You can connect Pebble to a USB charger or to your PC using the micro-usb connector to recharge your battery. Once the battery is fully charged you will see the RGB led to light up in green.
