docs/developer/dapp-starter/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

# IoTeX dApp Starter

Building any new project from scratch can be intimidating: if you are undecided about where to start and what libraries you need to kickstart your IoTeX dApp, you can use the IoTeX dApp starter as a starting point. Here are the features you’ll find in the starter out-of-box:

- Nest + React + Redux as a full stack
- Integration with latest IoTeX antenna SDK
- Integration with IoPay Wallet
- Get wallet balance example
- Send IOTX tokens example
- Send ERC20 tokens example

Just clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/iotexproject/iotex-dapp-sample) to get started:

```
git clone https://github.com/iotexproject/iotex-dapp-sample.git

cd iotex-dapp-sample

npm install

npm run dev
```

see the demo app at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and start adding your features!

:::tip Antenna-JS Docs
Check out [Antenna-JS documentaion section](http://localhost:8080/developer/sdk/install-antenna-js.html) to start developing your IoTeX dApp!
:::

Commit message:

Added reference links to dApp starter doc

docs/developer/dapp-starter/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

# IoTeX dApp Starter

Building any new project from scratch can be intimidating: if you are undecided about where to start and what libraries you need for your IoTeX dApp, you can use the IoTeX Sample dApp as a starting point. Here are the features you’ll find in the starter out-of-box:

- Nest + React + Redux stack
- Integration with latest IoTeX antenna SDK
- Integration with IoPay Wallet
- Get wallet balance example
- Send IOTX tokens example
- Send ERC20 tokens example

Just clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/iotexproject/iotex-dapp-sample) to get started:

```
git clone https://github.com/iotexproject/iotex-dapp-sample.git

cd iotex-dapp-sample

npm install

npm run dev
```

see the demo app at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and start adding your features!

:::tip Antenna-JS Docs
Check out [Antenna-JS documentaion section](http://localhost:8080/developer/sdk/install-antenna-js.html) to start developing your IoTeX dApp!
:::

:::tip More reference docs
⟩ nestjs: [https://docs.nestjs.com/](https://docs.nestjs.com/)

⟩ mobx: [https://mobx.js.org/README.html](https://mobx.js.org/README.html)

⟩ tailwindcss: [https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/)

⟩ razzle: [https://github.com/jaredpalmer/razzle](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/razzle)

⟩ ReduxDevTools: [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd?hl=en](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd?hl=en)

⟩ wildcard-api: [https://github.com/reframejs/wildcard-api](https://github.com/reframejs/wildcard-api)
:::
